Secure auth proposal (#402)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/investigations/secure-auth-resolvers.md

# Limit access of GraphQL objects or fields for specific resource owners

### Case 1:

Every object should has access to read information only about itself.
We should restrict access to other objects of the same type, for example: runtime musn't read other runtime configuraion.
We have two kind of such resolvers:
* `runtime(ID)` runtime should be able to only read about itself
* `runtimes` runtime should get list only with itself

> Also we have fields with custom resolvers like this:

Reviewer: It looks that we mix Case1 and Case2

In `APIDefinition`, there is a field `auth` with param `runtimeID`, runtime which ask for 
this field should be validated if ask with own `ID`.

> #### Example:

Reviewer: This example somehow repeats previous section, maybe we should join them and get rid of  Example section

RuntimeAgent wants `api` with field `auth`.
The `auth` field has custom resolver with 1 parameter `runtime_id`.
Before executing this resolver, the directive is executed.
Runtime with ID `ABCD` wants to fetch `auth` for runtime ID `DCBA`.
It's should be forbidden.

> We have 2 options:

Reviewer: We should propose a solution instead of presenting alternatives

- return error
- return empty auth

For me more suitable is to return error such as `Access Denied`.

### Case 2:

RuntimeAgent want to read all Application.
The application has field `auths`.
The runtime should be able to read `auths` only connected with given runtime.

#### Example:

RuntimeAgent wants `api` with field `auths`.

Field `Auths` contains all `auths` for all runtimes.
We want to return `auths` connected with the asking runtime.

### Case 3:

RuntimeAgent want to read all Application with their Apis. 
`Apis` contain field `auths` which contain `APIRuntimeAuth`
The data in `auths` field should be filtered to contains `auths` only connected to the given RuntimeAgent.

### Questions
`Fetch Request`, `Webhook` has also  field `auth`, who does have the ability to fetch this field?

> Connected [Issue](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/issues/306)

Reviewer: Get rid of this link to the connected issue, it will be in a PR description

## Proposed solution

### Tenant Mapping service
Tenant Mapping service adds 2 items to the header
1. Object Type, service is able to determine who calls the API, whether it is Application, Runtime or IntegrationSystem
2. Object ID

The enriched request is sent to the compass.

### Directives
Object Types:

> *Runtime

Reviewer: this is incorrectly rendered

*Application
*Integration System

> Then we create two directives:

Reviewer: show me full example how it will be combined with current `hasScopes` directive. You can use `    applicationsForRuntime(runtimeID: ID!, first: Int = 100, after: PageCursor): ApplicationPage! @hasScopes(path: "graphql.query.applicationsForRuntime")
`

Author: Added.

> * limitScope(For: []objectTypes) - this directive does following things:

Reviewer: how you done any kind of reasearch? how others solve this problem?

Author: I found only information how to restrict access to resolvers by directives.

    * get object type and id from request header
    * check if object type exist in `For` argument
    * if exist, the directive put to context following information:
        * key: column_name/property, depends on object type
        * value: object ID
      * if not exist, the query underneath is not modified
     Then in query helpers we modify the query, by adding additional filtering conditions.

> * restrict(For: []objectType) - does following things:

Reviewer: where this annotation should be placed? on query, on param or on field?

Author: Currently I am working to put the directive on parameter.

# Secure resovlers to be able to show only the allowed fields
Purpose:

[Issue](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/compass/issues/306)

Secure auth fields to show values only for the right caller.

> # First Scenario resolver with ID parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# First Scenario - resolver with ID parameter
```

> RuntimeAgent want `api` with field `auth`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RuntimeAgent wants `api` with field `auth`.
```

The `auth` field has custom resolver with 1 parameter `runtime_id`.
Before executing this resolver, the directive is executed.

> When runtime with ID `ABCD` want to get `auth` for runtime ID `DCBA`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When runtime with ID `ABCD` wants to get `auth` for runtime ID `DCBA`.
```

It's should be forbidden.
We have 2 options:
- return error
- return empty auth

For me more suitable is to return error such as `Access Denied`.

> ## Second scenario resolver without ID parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Second scenario - resolver without ID parameter
```

> RuntimeAgent want `api` with field `auths`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RuntimeAgent wants `api` with field `auths`.
```

> Field `Auths` contains all `auths` for all runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Field `Auths` contains all `auths` for all runtimes.
```

> We want to return `auths` connected with runtime which ask for this field. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We want to return `auths` connected with the runtime which asks for this field. 
```

## Proposed Flow
### First step (tenant mapping service):

> Tenant Mapping service add 2 items to header

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tenant Mapping service adds 2 items to the header
```

> 1. Object Type, service is able to differ who called the API, if it was App, Runtime or IntegrationSystem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Object Type, service is able to determine who calls the API, whether it is Application, Runtime or IntegrationSystem
```

2. Object ID

> The request is send to compass.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The enriched request is sent to the compass.
```

> ### Second step for resolver without parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Second step (for resolver without parameters)
```

Compass has such directive:

`limitScope(For: objectType)`

In this directive, we retrieve Object Type and Object ID.

> If object type match type from header, then we put it into context such pairs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If object type matches the type from the header, then we put it into the context following pairs:
```

- key: column_name/property, depends on object type
- value: object ID

We can name it as a list of restrictions.

> ### Second step for resolver with parameters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Second step (for resolver with parameters)
```

Compass has such directive:

`restrict(For: objectType)`

In this directive, we retrieve Object Type and Object ID.

> If object type match type from header, then we compare the ids.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If object type matches type from the header, then we compare the ids.
```

If don't match we return error for this resolver with message `Access Denied`

### Third step
In our repository we have compliant column name (if column refer to application it has name `app_id`. 

> Repository helper `Get` and `List` retrieve the value from context and construct the conditions, which are later added to conditons list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Repository helper `Get` and `List` retrieve the value from the context and constructs the conditions, which are later added to the conditions list.
```

# Limit access of GraphQL objects or fields for specific resource owners

### Case 1:

Every object should be able to read information only about itself.
We should restrict access to other objects of the same type, for example: runtime musn't read other runtime configuraion.
We have two kinds of such resolvers:
* `runtime(ID)` runtime should be able to only read about itself

> * `runtimes` - this data is limited for `RuntimeAgents` with `hasScopes` directive, so it's not our case.

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
* `runtimes` - this data is limited for `RuntimeAgents` with `hasScopes` directive, which restricts access to the resolver
```

> * `runtimes` - this data is limited for `RuntimeAgents` with `hasScopes` directive, so it's not our case.

Reviewer 2: Why this is not our case? Can you describe it a bit more?
Maybe it is worth to mention here shortly how the `hasScopes` directive works.

Author: `runtimes` should be called by admin or somebody with high priviledges. 
We can restrict this by `scopes`.

Author: ```suggestion
* `runtimes` - this data is limited for `RuntimeAgents` with `hasScopes` directive, so it's not our case.
(hasScopes directive restrict access to resolver)
```

### Case 2:

The runtime agent execute query `applicationsForRuntime` with `runtimeID` param.

> Runtime should't be able to call this query with different `runtimeID`. 

Author: ```suggestion
 Runtime should't be able to call this query with different `runtimeID` than it's own. 
```

In case of different ID, we should return  error such as `Access Denied`.

### Case 3:

> RuntimeAgent want to read all Applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RuntimeAgent wants to read all Applications.
```

Does the runtime want to read all defined applications or applications assigned to that particular runtime?

The application has field `auths`.
The RuntimeAgent shouldn't have access to reading `auths`.
We can restrict the access by current `hasScopes` directive.

### Case 4:

RuntimeAgent wants to read all Applications with their APIs. 
`Apis` contain field `auths` which contains `APIRuntimeAuth` and field `auth` with `runtimeID` param.
The RuntimeAgent shouldn't have access to reading `auths`.
We can restrict the access by `hasScopes` directive.

RuntimeAgent should be allowed to read field `auth` with owned RuntimeID parameter.

## Proposed solution for resolvers with parameter ID

### Tenant Mapping service
Tenant Mapping service adds 2 items to the header
1. Object Type, service is able to determine who calls the API, whether it is Application, Runtime or IntegrationSystem
2. Object ID

The enriched request is sent to the compass API.

### Directive
Object Types:
* Runtime
* Application
* Integration System

> resourceOwner(Owner: []objectType, Id_Field: string) - can be used for query.

Reviewer: move this to a code block

> Currently we cannot use this directive on query param ( https://github.com/99designs/gqlgen/issues/760).

Reviewer: It looks strange that there is one ID and many types, why?

Author: Yes, you're right. The array here doesn't make sens now.

The directive does following things:
* get object type and ID from request header

> * check if object type exist in `For` argument

Author: For: for which object this directive should be executed.

> * check if object type exist in `For` argument

Author: ```suggestion
* check if object type exist in `Owner` argument
```

* if yes, then the directive compare the ID field. If the ID mismatches, the following error is returned `Access Denied`.

## Example flow for ApplicationForRuntime with resourceOwner directive

```graphql
applicationsForRuntime(runtimeID: ID!, first: Int = 100, after: PageCursor): ApplicationPage! 
@hasScopes(path: "graphql.query.applicationsForRuntime")
@resourceOwner(For: [RUNTIME], Id_Field: "runtimeID")  
```

> When runtimeAgent with ID `ABCD` execute query `applicationsForRuntime` with param `runtimeID` equal to `DCBA`, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When Runtime Agent with ID `ABCD` executes query `applicationsForRuntime` with param `runtimeID` equals to `DCBA`, 
```

> the runtime agent will get error `Access Denied`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Runtime Agent will get an error `Access Denied`.
```

> When IntegrationSystem with ID `ABCD` execute query `applicationsForRuntime` with param `runtimeID` equal to `DCBA`, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When IntegrationSystem with ID `ABCD` executes query `applicationsForRuntime` with param `runtimeID` equals to `DCBA`, 
```

> The directive dont' check anything, because it's only turn on for `RUNTIME`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The directive doesn't check anything, because it's only turn on for the `RUNTIME`.
```

### Resources to secure

> List of resolvers which should be secured with `@resourceOwner` directive:

Reviewer 2: Resolvers or mutations and queries?
